>> Rodriguez: So the easiest way to see
this is in a single column simple layout,
like what we've been building out,
to see how this actually works in action.
So you'll see that single
column hybrid HTML example.
And I'm gonna pop it open here and
walk through what that looks like.
>> Rodriguez: So
the same stuff we've been doing before.
We have our base document, we have our
CSS resets doing all that good stuff.
And then, we have our div.
This is what we had originally,
where we have this container div.
And then, each of our modules,
those content pieces,
are just sitting inside of that div.
We can use margin on these different
elements to add that white space and
make everything look good.
But we're not using tables or
anything like that.
So it's nice and super clean to code
something like this when it's a single
column layout using this hybrid approach.
And this is something I do for
my own e-mails.
But it gets a lot more complex when
you start adding multiple columns,
which we'll look at in a few minutes here.
But you can see that we have this div,
that's the container.
And the only thing we're doing to
constrain that width is using this
max-width property in line on that div.
So for most e- mail clients,
it will render that properly.
But we saw earlier that Outlook
just completely blows that out.
It doesn't understand max-width, so
we have to do something different.
And that's where these conditional
tables come into play.
So in this e-mail, the only table
you'll see is this one up here for
that Microsoft only view.
So we use that same conditional comment.
We're saying if this is greater than or
equal to Microsoft Outlook 2000 or
IE, then I want you to wrap all
this content inside of this table,
table row, and table cell.
And this is using the exact same table
approach that we've seen before.
We're overriding things like cell spacing,
cell padding, and the border.
We're setting the specific width,
which is 600 pixels wide.
We're gonna use align-center so that
entire e-mail's not shifted to the left,
it's centered in that viewport.
And then,
we have role equals presentation to
make sure that anybody
using assistive technology
doesn't get that table read out to them
if they're on Windows using Outlook.
So we open that up.
You can see the table,
the table row, table cell.
And then,
the entire e-mail lives inside of that.
Then, when we get later down, again, we
use this exact same conditional comment.
And then, we just close out those three
elements, the table cell, table row,
and table.
So when we do this, we can see that it
will render properly in Microsoft Outlook.
>> Rodriguez: Apple mail,
perfect as always.
I love you.
Outlook, it's looking great, it's awesome.
We don't get our border radius,
that's no big deal.
Our bulletproof button's working nicely.
But our whole design works well there.
But perhaps most importantly,
when we get down onto mobile,
then the e-mail works as intended.
It shrinks down because
it's fluid by default.
So we don't have to do anything
special with media queries, and
this is where it came into play.
Because Gmail was starting
out our media queries,
we had to make that fluid by default
approach to designing e- mails.
So it works well across all
these different mobile devices.
You'll see Samsung's usually a little bit
weird and will do some weird scaling or
shifting of your layout.
There's not too much
you can do about that.
But across all these different devices
that our e-mail's working really
well because it is fluid by default.
Again, for single column layouts,
this works really, really well.
It keeps your code super clean,
super easy to update, so
when you're updating this, you're just
looking at these basic HTML elements.
So you can swap those out, do whatever you
want with them, style them how you want.
But when we get into multiple columns for
hybrid coding,
it gets a lot more complex
because you have to account for
that stacking in really unique ways for
e-mail design.
So let's see what that
actually looks like.
>> Rodriguez: So I'm gonna open this up so
you can see what it looks like.
Similar to what we were doing before,
two columns, nothing special.
But when we start looking at our e-mail,
it gets a little bit more lengthy,
a little bit more verbose, and
we have to account for more.
So again,
we're using our main container div here.
We're using that max-width,
we're using our conditional table for
Microsoft Outlook.
But then, we get down into
our two column layout, and
that's where we have to
introduce back into tables.
We need a better container
than a div to house those two
different columns using this
hybrid coding approach.
So we're keeping that table fluid,
which is awesome, all right?
We're using that 100% wide.
And then, we're gonna open up
a table row and table cell.
Make sure that's 100% wide
to force that full width.
And then, you can see some
additional ghost tables in here.
A couple of things to keep in mind,
though,
is you're gonna see a lot of nesting
in here, and some kind of weird things.
So you'll see this font size equals 0.
And that'll just help ensure that the
spacing and the stacking works properly.
It's really weird that it's in there,
but it does work.
And we'll see multiple
nested tables in here.
We'll see the divs that we are using.
So the column comes from these table
cells inside of this ghost table.
You can see that this ghost
table's 600 pixels wide, but
this table cell's 300 pixels wide.
And then, we're using for other clients
that don't see those ghost tables,
then we fall back to use
this div based approach.
So we can say the max-width for
this is 50%.
So it's gonna be half that design.
We're gonna set it to inline block so
that it lines up next
to its neighbor column.
And then, you can adjust these,
all this stuff, as necessary.
You can adjust your content as necessary.
But by default, what it's doing is gonna
be stacking this on mobile because of how,
just this this min-width is working.
So you set your min-width to equal
whatever that max column size is.
And then, when it gets down to that,
it will naturally stack those.
It's not gonna let you go below it.
And it'll just force that
stacking on mobile clients.
So you can see that in action
when we pop it open in Litmus.
>> Rodriguez: The thing I don't like about
the multiple columns hybrid approach is
that it's so complex.
There's a lot of code in there.
There's a lot of things that
if you make one wrong move,
then it's gonna break your design.
And it gets even more complex as you start
adding three and four column layouts.
But again, we have our two columns.
Since this is set to inline block and
it's only 50%, those columns will shift
up on a large enough screen size.
But when it gets down to,
again, this is working well.
We could adjust that gutter a little bit
so there's space between the two columns.
But when we get down on a mobile,
since it's dropping below
that max-width breakpoint, then it's
going to naturally stack those columns.
So we get that single column layout.
So this is awesome, again, for clients
that don't support embedded styles and
media queries in the head.
It will just naturally do this.
It's that fluid by default,
and it works nicely and
choreographs that content without
having to mess with media queries.
That being said, it is more complex and
there's just more that potentially
go wrong when you're making updates or
trying to adopt this to new designs.
You can see that I put in here
a folder into the GitHub repo
that's called Hybrid Examples.
And this is code from Fabio Cannaro who
was developing a lot of these ideas.
And these are just examples of
different e-mail type structures.
So you can see this two column fluid,
which is the same thing that
we were just looking at.
It's nice that he has a couple of
developer notes in here to tell
you what's going on here.
So setting the font size zero is necessary
to ensure there's no extra space
introduced and that they wrap properly.
To have each column center upon stacking,
wrap them in the individual divs and
set the max-width and width the same.
Set them to display inline block, and
then using vertical-align will help those
line up when they're next to each other.
So some helpful notes in there that'll
help you pick through this stuff.
But when you get into
you even more columns,
then it's just a hell of a lot
of code to try to maintain.
So this is a simple three column layout
with gutters between those columns.
No real styling.
If we pop this open,
you can see what it looks like.
There's nothing really going on, and
it's already at 130 lines of code that
you have to dig through and maintain.
Whereas, if we got our single column
hybrid e-mail that has images and
styles and all that good stuff,
it's only at 117 lines of code.
So I'll leave it to you to decide
which one you wanna maintain and
build on top of.
But if you do need to make
specific multi-column layouts, and
you want to ensure that they work
across the widest range of devices and
e-mail clients, especially if they make
any updates where they're stripping out
that head of your e-mail and
those embedded styles,
then that's where this hybrid
approach really comes into play.
There's some cool things you can do,
too, as well.
You can have reverse stacking.
You can have unequal
columns that reverse stack.
So you would have this example
where you have your right,
which is wider than your left.
If we shrink down here,
then you can see the right comes on top.
It's that reverse stacking order,
but it still maintains those widths.
You can combine this with media queries
to get some really advanced stuff and
adjust all those styles as needed.
But it's really up to the developer
what they need to support,
what they need to do to make sure that
it's working for their subscribers.
But yeah,
that's hybrid coding in a nutshell.
The examples in here get pretty lengthy,
so I'll leave it to you to go through
those hybrid examples which are available
on the GitHub repo for this workshop.
Definitely worth picking through and
testing out and
seeing how they actually work.
Fabio's developer notes
are super handy in there.
But really, I like this hybrid
approach for single column layouts.
But if I'm doing multiple columns, then
I'm usually just falling back to tables
and using media queries and classes
to target those for mobile devices.